# INFO_664_FINAL_PROJECT
 Repo contains the final for Info 664 Final Project: Queens College Instructional Analysis Fall 2010- Spring 2021


Title: 
Queens College Instructional Analysis, Fall 2011 – Spring 2021

Description:
This project analyzes the faculty status across 10 years of historical course schedule data at Queens College with the goal of visualizing the breakdown between part-time and full-time instructors on the course schedule, segmented by course level, department, and division.  The scope of this project only includes the fall and spring semesters for each academic year, not including summer or winter terms. 

Data Sources:
Historical course schedule data, without faculty titles, is available for download by semester to csv from The Queens College Course and Faculty Information System: https://apps.qc.cuny.edu/courses/

Faculty title information is sourced from the historical payroll information listed on https://www.seethroughny.net/, a site compiling New York State data developed by the Empire Center, an independent, non-partisan, non-profit think tank located in Albany, New York.

Instructions:

1 – Generate a dictionary of faculty titles: 1_scrapeseethruNY_2010-2021.py

This code completes generates a reference directory of titles per academic year to be matched to the instructor on the course schedule by scraping https://www.seethroughny.net/payrolls for CUNY employees for years 2010-2021 via an internal API. The API accessed through seethroughny.net is not developed for external users rather it is designed for the webpage itself to populate data based on user selections on the webpage.  To access the data, the code initiates get requests by populating headers from the Network Tab of the Google Chrome development tools. The token expires within 24 hours so the code requires the headers are updated each time it is run.

The accessed data is then parsed with beautiful soup to record instructor name, title, and salary. Regex is used to generate a new unique ID for faculty to support matching instructor titles in the course schedule data. The code also checks for duplicates within in the same fiscal year, applying the assumption that title connected to the highest salary reflects an employee’s primary position within Queens College.

The resulting file is saved to the “Titles” folder to be uploaded as a dictionary in the next step: 2_master_schedule_merge.py

2 – Generate a summary of the course schedule: 2_master_schedule_merge.py

This code merges, cleanss and restructures the course schedule data saved to the “Schedule” folder tree of csv downloaded by semester from https://apps.qc.cuny.edu/courses/.

Variables like department, division, and course level are mapped from the parsed data within the course schedule data. The code includes a dictionary of subject code to department and division researched from the Queens College Bulletin: https://www.qc.cuny.edu/Academics/Documents/Adm_Undergraduate_Bulletin_2020_2021.pdf

The code further generates a unique ID for the instructor’s names per academic year to match the ‘Titles” files generated from the ‘1_scrapeseethruNY_2010-2021.py’ code. A dictionary within the code maps titles to part-time or full-time with the assumption that any instructor with an administrative title is a part-time member of the faculty.

Code saves a csv file ‘master_merged_schedule’ to the ‘Output’ folder.

3 – Build a master faculty roster from the course schedule:3_master_faculty_roster.py

This code generates a summary of the instructors on the course schedule by status, academic year, semester, level, department, and division built from iterating over the merged course schedule generated by the 2_master_schedule_merge.py.

Instructor, department, and division is assumed to be, and calculated within the code as, the department an instructor taught the most number of credits for that academic year. Assigning a primary ‘home’ department and division supports the end visualization by which the faculty roster and course schedule can be filtered by department and division.

The resulting csv is saved to the ‘Output’ file as ‘master faculty roster’ for visualization.


Files:
Files include code, reference csv’s, and the ‘output’ csv’s used for visualization. 

Code Folder:
1_scrape_seethruNY_2010-2021.py
2_master_shedule_merge.py
3_master_roster_code.py

Output Folder:
master_faculty_roster.csv
master_merged_schedule.csv

Schedule Folder:
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2011.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2012.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2013.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2014.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2015.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2016.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2017.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2018.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2019.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Fall2020.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2012.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2013.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2014.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2015.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2016.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2017.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2018.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2019.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2020.csv
Schedule_A00_AllPrograms_Spring2021.csv

Titles Folder:
seethroughny_QueensCollege_titles.csv
seethroughny_QueensCollege_missing_titles.csv

Contact:
Ellen Connell
econne17@pratt.edu 